[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: We've already talked about
concatAll, and the way it works top to
bottom left to right, just the same
way that worked with the right.
So, if you're ever confused about
how observable works with concatAll,
just think about how an array get
flattened with concatAll all.
There's two more flattening strategies
that I wanna call your attention to.
And together,
these three flattening strategies,
you're are gonna be able to solve
most of these same problems with.
The next flattening strategy I want to
call attention to is what happens when
you've got three lanes of traffic, and one
gets closed down because of an accident,
at least in a civil society, what happens?
>> Speaker 2: They merge.
>> Jafar: They merge,
first come first serve, right?
If whoever gets there first merges in,
that would be the civil way to do things.
It might not actually work out that way in
practice, but in a perfect world, right?
So, let's run this and
see what happens when we merge four lanes
of observable, so to speak, into one.
So, once again, we subscribe we for
each of the outer observable, and so,
we start getting inner
observables arriving over time.
Once we get an inner observable,
we forge each other that, and
one comes out immediately, and
this time, you're immediately returned,
just like in concatAll.
Now, a second observable, that one
finishes, a second observer comes along,
we forge over that,
we return two as soon as it comes out.
And now we're waiting for three.
Now, in the previous example,
concatAll would not emit any more
values from subsequent observables
until the observable is currently
listening to completed.
Not so with merge.
So, while we're listening for
three to come along,
another observable comes along.
This time it's empty,
we forEach over that,
what happens to an empty
observable when we flatten it?
It disappears.
None of it, there's no data in there,
nothing comes out.
We're still listening for
the second observable to complete, right?
Another one comes along, merge immediately
before it reaches over this one.
It doesn't buffer it.
It immediately forEach over observables,
as soon as they arrive, and
we get out four.
And then that completes, and
then once that completes,
we're still listening all this time, we've
been listening that second observable.
Finally, it gives us a value and
then completes and we get.
This order right here.
So in concatAll,
data is emitted based on the order of the
collection that it was inside of arrived.
In mergeAll, doesn't matter,
it's first come first serve.
Whatever data comes out,
we immediately emit.
We don't buffer up observables we just
forEach over them as soon as they arrive.
And as soon as their data comes through,
it just gets emitted.
Is that relatively straightforward?
So, that's why we got
items out of order here.
Because we, you use mergeAll,
when you don't care about order, and
you just want data throughput.
You want data throughput as fast you can,
you don't care about order.
Use concatAll when you care about order.
Does that makes sense?
We'll come up with more
concrete examples later.
The final pattern in this is perhaps the
most common flattening pattern you will
use in user interfaces,
you use it all the time is switch latest.
So, switchLatest starts out
just like concatAll, so
we subscribe the outer observable, we get
an inner observable, we subscribe to that,
we forEach over that, and then we
immediately emit a value, then we begin.
Then we get a second observable,
we forEach other that.
Two pops out, we immediately emit that,
but while we're waiting for that,
second observable to complete.
Another observable arrives, and
what switchLatest does is it
switches to the latest observable.
It says to the second observable,
I don't want any more data.
By calling subscription.dispose, so
it unsubscribes from
that previous observable.
So, we're never going
to get the value three.
Cuz we've said to the producer,
I don't want any more data.
>> Jafar: And so, once again,
empty collection gets flat.
And there's nothing inside.
And then another observable comes along.
We return this.
And finally, when the outer observable
completes, when the outer observable says,
I've got no more inner observables for
you, the whole thing completes.
>> Speaker 2: With the empty one,
do you want to kill the second one, or
only with something with data
will kill the second one.
>> Jafar: Really?
That's a really good question.
Another way of doing switchLatest,
and this is actually a legitimate
plotting pattern you could use, which
is called switchLatest on notification.
Another way of handling it would be,
instead of switching from the second
one when the third one arrive,
would be to wait for
the third one to give us a piece of data.
And that's what you're kind of saying,
right?
What if we waited until the third one
gave us a piece of data before switching?
That's not how it works.
We switch as soon as we
get another observable.
We don't wait for
the observable to give us data.
>> Speaker 2: So,
the observable will kill it?
>> Jafar: Will kill it.
Now, that's actually totally
legitimate way of doing things as well.
There should be a pattern for
that as well.
I think there may be in RX,
there may not be.
Frankly, this turns out to be
the most most common thing.
Now, why is this the most common thing?
Because in user interfaces,
users do this all the time.
Let's say I've got a simple button on
a form, and every time you go out and
click it we go out and
check Netflix's stock price, for example.
Put it on screen, right?
Now, let's say I give that to my user,
right?
What's the first thing that that user,
or better yet,
let's say I give that to my QA person.
I've got a quality assurance
person at Netflix.
Yep, the first thing that that quality
assurance person is gonna just bang on
that button as fast as they can.
They're such jerks.
We're always trying to break stuff.
What's gonna happen if
they jam on that button?
Does anybody have an idea?
>> Speaker 3: It will
just take the last one?
>> Jafar: Well, with switchLatest,
absolutely right.
It'll cancel any outgoing requests.
Maybe before they were made.
Because remember, browser has queues
of requests that are outgoing, right?
And it will cancel a pending request.
You might actually be able to cancel
a request before it even heads out, right?
So, it turns out to be very efficient to
use switchLatest because you only got so
many sockets that you
can open to a server.
There is only so
many concurrent connections you can have,
and that's why observable is so
useful because the consumer can say to
the producer, I don't want any more data.
That gives the producer
the opportunity to cancel or
prevent any work that had scheduled
to happen from happening.
So, in this case, the browser has
a queue of outgoing requests, and
if it turns around and calls abort
right at the producer, the observer
becomes around and returns and says abort
on the outgoing request, it might actually
prevent a request from going out
before it even is issued to get it.
Sorry, you got a question back there?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, how does switchLatest
know when to dispose of some sort of
debunks going on?
>> Jafar: Well,
it knows when to dispose because remember,
switchLatest is subscribed
to an outer observable.
And every single time it gets
an inner observable, if it already is
listening to another inner observable,
that's what it knows to dispose.
Because its job is to only listen
to one inner observable at a time.
And so, as soon as it gets a new one,
if it's listening to another one,
it disposes of that one.
So, it disposes of the inner
subscription to the inner
observables it's currently listening to as
soon as a new inn observable comes along,
does that makes sense?
>> Speaker 5: So, in your button example,
it's only going to listen to the first
click, and then all of the clicks will be
ignored, or it will be the last click, or
how does that work?
>> Jafar: Good question.
SwitchLatest.
So, we what we're really doing
is we're taking clicks, and
when we see this example later on,
makes more sense.
But what I'm actually doing
is I'm taking clicks, and
I'm mapping over every click, and
I'm replacing it with an observable.
That is actually the result
of a network request.
And so I'm taking a flat observable of
just quick object quick object quick
object click event object right And
I mapping it into a two dimensional
observable because for every click
object I am gonna substitute in
an observable that represents
the result of the network request.
And so, now I have a two dimensional
observable, and what switchLatest
is gonna do is it's gonna say, well,
whenever a new observable comes along,
because I've created this two
dimensional observable with map,
when I apply switchLatest to it,
now I have two dimensional observable.
And undo inner observables only gonna
come along when another click happens.
And so, switchLatest, it doesn't know
about the clicks or the map operation,
all it knows about is two
dimensional observable.
And it knows that whenever
a new observable comes along,
it disposes of the old one and
starts listening to the new one.
And just by calling dispose,
what it's calling dispose on is on that
observable that represents
that asynchronous operation.
And so, when it calls dispose
on the subscription object,
returned by that observable that
kicks off the asynchronous operation,
that producer can just say abort the XHR,
abort the network request that goes out.
But I know that's a lot,
that's a mouthful.
We'll have examples and
we'll go into it more clearly, right?
But that's effectively what's going on.
Every single click gets mapped
into a network request.
Which is also represented
as an observable.
And so, we get a two dimensional
observable, and we're only interested in
one network request, one request for
the stock price, at a time.
>> Speaker 5: Which one's
the first click here?
Is it one?
>> Jafar: Every single one of these
observables represent a click because
>> Speaker 5: But the first one,
that would be the one, right?
>> Jafar: One, yes.
Every single one of these observables
represent a click because every single
time I click a button,
I've mapped that into a network request.
So, just think about each of these
observables like a stock price.
I know it's, there's multiple values in
here, so you expect to see an observable
of one, and you'd expect to see
a bunch of dots in front of it.
That's how you would.
That's if you were to visualize what
a network request would look like?
With every thought network
recently returned one value rule,
it would look like dot, dot, dot 52.
And then it ends, and
that's what a network request would
look like it's an observable.
Yep?
>> Speaker 2: I'm generally sad about
losing data,
are we sad that we lose our click stream?
We don't necessarily-
>> Jafar: We only lose the clicks,
notice that this stream,
if the source of this stream is clicks,
this observable will go on forever.
The flattened observable will go on
forever because it could always be another
click which always creates
another network requests.
So, the only thing we're losing is the
the stock price that we tried to get for
an individual click.
And that's a nuance.
Sometimes it's hard for people.
They think, we're, we stop this and
give the outer observable.
No, we stop this and
give the inner observables.
And this, and we've stopped listening to
it presumably because there's something
newer that we're more interested in.
And this happens with you
guys all all the time, right?
I jump into a form, and
an animation starts, but then I hit back.
I want to cancel that animation,
or stop that animation, right?
It happens all the time in the users
interface, which is why it's gonna
be most useful pattern that we're
gonna be using in user interfaces.
Now, if you didn't have switchLatest,
you'd build state machines.
You would have variables saying,
I've got an animation going.
I gotta remember that I have an animation
going, just in case somebody gets back,
is that I need to check whether
I've got animation going.
And then I need to cancel that
animation and then it gets hard.
It gets really hard.
I'm gonna show you how to do
all this stuff declaratively.
Instead of building a machine with a bunch
moving parts to compute an answer,
we are gonna write the answer, and
that's all the difference in the world.
We're gonna do this declaratively.
I got another question at the back.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
They were talking about an example here
for having a music player with a previous
next song buttons, switchLatest,
would that accidentally go to
immediately next to previous song?
Regardless of the amount of
times you clicked the control?
>> Jafar: Well,
it's hard to say without knowing
how this two dimensional
observer was created.
I mean,
every click could create an action object.
Right?
Whether you click back forward or next or
whatever, you could map all the clicks on
those buttons into actions, which is
observables that are asynchronous.
Because start doing player option
actions may be asynchronous, right?
When you play, it might need to
go to the server to load it, but
some of those actions
might be synchronous.
Stop might be able to be
executed synchronously.
I don't know, but let's imagine for
a second that each one of those
player options was asynchronous.
Maybe we're talking with
a native player object.
So, we have to send a message and
we get a call back, right?
Maybe it's not even a, maybe it's
a browser object that we need to talk to
through a native asynchronous interface.
So, let's say every single one of
those clicks was asynchronous.
We asynchronously got back a message
telling us weather was successful or not.
Well then,
let's take each one of those clicks,
map them into an observable that
represents that specific player action.
So, when I call play on the player, I get
back into the observable that completes
when that play is actually
successfully occurred.
Well, then we have another observable
of observables, and then switchLatest
would be perfectly fine, because if I hit
skip forward to the next chapter, right?
And then I decided, no, I want to pause.
If the skipping forward took a certain
amount of time, then we could cancel
skipping forward, and then we could
just switch over to the pause operation.
Does that makes sense?
So, this will be more concrete when we
start to see the larger programs that use
switchLatest, you'll be able to understand
how this all fits together in context.
For now though, it's just important we
learn, focus in on this one thing, and
understand switchLatest does to
a two dimensional observable.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I have a question, and
so, this two, does that kill the three,
or does four kill the three?
>> Jafar: Actually,
the empty observable kills the three.
>> Jafar: So it's the third
observable that comes along.
And that's the distinction.
I am glad you asked that question,
cuz that's an important distinction.
It's not when an observable
gives you data that you stop
listening to the current observable, it's
not when a new observable comes along and
then gives you data that you stop
listening to the previous observable.
It's when a new observable comes along.
Data or no data, then you stop
listening to the current observable.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I understand.